immigration and refugee policy
people have a great deal of difficulty
thinking about this
with detachment and dispassion when it's
the future
of their own nation-state that's at
stake or when they're looking at
photographs of particular refugees
who may be sitting on their border or
dying in boats
trying to cross into their territory and
claim refugee status
that's why i'm going to start this video
talking about thailand
on the other side of the world most of
you in this audience
can imagine why people think thailand is
paradise you yourself
may be burdened with the delusion that
thailand is paradise you yourself may be
planning to one day retire
to thailand okay as difficult as it may
be
to relate to people from nicaragua
or mexico who get it fixed in their
minds they can have a wonderful bright
future if only they become
illegal immigrants in the united states
of america
if all of us in this audience can agree
that thailand is a somewhat enticing
destination
imagine how much more enticing it would
seem
if you had been born and raised in
bangladesh
if you were born and raised in vietnam
if you were born and raised in indonesia
if right now your family
was struggling suffering and dying
in the midst of the revolution
civil war protest movement going on in
myanmar
right next door thailand
starts to seem to be a very enticing
destination indeed now
what percentage of people in myanmar
really care
about democracy what percentage of them
are really
willing to fight and die
for the future of democracy i doubt it's
50 i just doubt that
i just doubt all that many people are
all that courageous and if it were
50 frankly i think the revolution would
already be over by now
the military would be overwhelmed by the
volunteers
even if they were barely armed right
demanding the right to vote and getting
rid of the military tissue let's
let's just say generously it's 20
percent
if this dissatisfied 20 percent
of the population of myanmar abandons
myanmar
and they all move to thailand 20
population of myanmar
relocates to thailand as refugees
is that better for the future of planet
earth as a whole
is it better for thailand and is it
better
for myanmar
vietnam it's a horrible depressing
communist dictatorship vietnam in many
ways vietnam is a much more depressing
country
politically than cambodia or
china two countries the vietnamese have
borders with
on opposite sides i can completely
sympathize with a vietnamese family
who decides you know what we can have a
better life in thailand in thailand they
have
some democracy in thailand they have
some freedom of speech
and yeah there are coconuts and mangoes
and
it's paradise in various other palpable
ways
okay what what percentage of the
population of vietnam
would rather live in thailand rather
than what
rather than either conforming to the
political conditions that exist in
vietnam war
or rather than struggling against them
rather than starting and struggling and
suffering and dying
through some kind of terrible revolution
so that vietnam can frankly catch up
with
thailand and i'm an optimist about human
nature i think
vietnam could become a better country
than talent they could have a better
democracy
could have a higher quality of education
higher quality of life
but you want to give a rough estimate of
how many people are going to die
before that happens did anyone else in
the audience
try to estimate the body count for the
civil war
in syria just when it was getting
started
so many years any of you did any of you
actually estimate higher than what the
body count
now is no okay
for vietnam to make the transition from
communist dictatorship to democracy
it's not going to be tens of thousands
who die it's going to be hundreds of
thousands who die
right now in myanmar how many people
are going to have to die and guess what
this idea we have of refugees
and migration it's really kind of sort
of
the coward's way out isn't it and
on a face-to-face level i sympathize i
understand
how hard it is for people to make this
kind of detached
assessment of the situation i know how
hard it is for people in texas
to say well look venezuela
is a disaster but the solution
is not for 20 of the population of
venezuela
to relocate to texas as refugees that
can't possibly be the solution
cuba i do not know
what percentage of the population that
was in cuba around the year 1950
is now in the united states of america
or now has their descendants
living in the united states america it's
a significant percentage a significant
percentage of the total population
of cuba has relocated the united states
the tiny country of laos
still a communist dictatorship a very
significant percentage of their
population over the last 50 years
relocated to thailand i've seen attempts
to estimate that but yeah millions of
people
can transfer between locations the tiny
island of
cyprus how many cypriots now are
permanent residents or
citizens in london england it's a huge
percentage of populations
a huge percentage of some of these
countries has relocated it can happen
and right now frankly if the united
states allowed it
or encouraged it you could take on 10 20
of pretty much every single one of these
countries so the equator
but most obviously venezuela
and likewise within southeast asia right
now most obviously myanmar
because that's where you know normal
social mores are collapsing
right but sometimes normal social mores
are intolerable in and of themselves
what if you were born in indonesia
and you happen to be gay
how much more comfortable would you be
in thailand
as a homosexual than in indonesia
right this is kind of the easiest
example
because what if you're born in indonesia
and you're just a free-thinking
atheist intellectual what if you're what
if you're heterosexual guy
kind of like me i actually don't think
i'm that special
you know what guys i think on the level
of values
i think there are guys just like me who
are born
in muslim majority cultures whether
that's in saudi arabia
malaysia indonesia or anywhere else and
you know what
i know you can actually google around
the internet some of those guys
fantasize about starting a new life in
japan
it's normally japan because they have
japanese cartoons on tv
in indonesia heavily censored heavily
censored japanese cartoons
but they very often do fixate on and
fantasize about
living in some other society which is
just
not repressive and oppressive in the way
that a muslim majority society
is okay what is going to happen
to thailand if 10 of the population of
indonesia
and 10 of the population of malaysia and
20 of the population of myanmar
and 10 of the population of vietnam if
they
all run away to live in thailand
it will be the end of thailand as we
know it
my perspective is that that
transformation
quite apart from whether or not it would
be good for thailand
would not be good for malaysia for
indonesia
for myanmar for vietnam right i don't
believe in
this kind of mass immigration
transformation of
any one of these societies or all of
them collectively being
positive i don't believe in it being a
net positive or a net gain
for the future of of planet earth okay i
don't think
that having everyone with a conscience
who cares about democracy
abandoning venezuela is a good idea and
just think
i myself have met some of these people i
knew colombians i met colombians i'm
just being honest
i met colombians all over the world i've
met so many people
who were born and raised in colombia and
found some excuse
to be living in canada or in thailand or
else or wherever i was
you know you can meet and they're not
rich people who got a few dollars
together got enough money together in
the bank
to migrate and live and work somewhere
else and you know what they were doing
they were giving up
on the future of colombia which is going
to be a tremendous struggle right
we have this image in our heads that
refugees
are the poorest of the poor and in terms
of what social science research shows us
that is absolutely never the case right
you're looking at the people
who at least have enough money to make
this kind of relocation and start a new
life
very often or shouldn't say very often
disproportionately
you are often looking at the talented
tenth of that society you're looking at
people who are medical doctors and
architects
people who have a higher level of skills
in education partly because they
may believe that if they could run away
to live in england or run away to live
in america
run away to live in town that they could
live as good and a better life once they
got there
all right you are very often looking at
the brain drain phenomenon
and even places like jamaica complain of
this and jamaica itself
has a case to be made that they come
closer to paradise
than most countries on this planet and
they also struggle with the fact that
they're most educated most skilled
people
instead of staying and struggling for a
better future in jamaica
they run away to live elsewhere in first
world
decadent democracies okay
the concept of mass immigration
entered into canadian politics and i
think honestly it's
only now in 2021 starting to have
currency in american politics
it entered into canadian politics from
england
it was really nigel farage
the leader of the the brexit movement
just to be brief
he's led a series of political parties
trying to get england to
exit from the european union and as you
may know he eventually succeeded
he started reasoning in this
way talking about mass immigration
precisely because he does not fall into
the stereotype
of supporting an isolated monocultural
white nationalist ethnostate right
there's a very deep assumption that
people find difficult to struggle
against 21st century
that either you support a cosmopolitan
multicultural globalized world
or you are some redneck retrograde
who wants a homogeneous monocultural
whites-only ethnostate all right what
nigel farage had to argue for
and his whole political career he has
had
problems of being tainted by racists in
his own party that his political parties
obviously attracted different kinds of
neo-nazis and white supremacists
he had to make clearing again no no no
that's not the agenda
he uh he supports he had a clear look
the contrast we're talking about is not
between
cosmopolitanism and isolationism no
he wants to contrast the world as it was
under the european union in the 2000s
with mass immigration
to a world that everyone could remember
from the 1980s
just a few decades before when in
england in england specifically
in the 1980s they already had
a cosmopolitan country they already had
a country
where every city and every town had
indian restaurants
every hospital had indian and pakistani
doctors the british military had large
numbers of nepalese men
famously you know but they had military
recruits from around the world in the
former
british empire london was already full
of chinese restaurants
and thai restaurants london had
predominantly jamaican neighborhoods
they had african immigrant neighborhoods
people did already live in a
multicultural
cosmopolitan society in england in the
1980s but at that time he's saying
they had moderate immigration
that's what he wanted to go back to as
opposed to
mass immigration and mass immigration is
the phenomenon where you have so many
immigrants coming in
that the challenge for the school board
is no longer having a classroom
of 30 students two of whom may be
pakistani immigrants the problem is you
have a teacher
and now it's 28 out of 30 students
our new immigrants 28 out of 30 students
don't speak english as their first
language and they may bring with them
political values that are incredibly
challenging
for the education system they may bring
with them
anti-semitic conspiracy theories passed
on to them from their grandparents and
parents
they may have anti-semitic conspiracies
about current world events like the
september 11th attacks in new york city
right they may blame israel for all
kinds of things he can't believe anyone
would blame israel for but
their family has just immigrated from
pakistan
wherever they're from and they have
brought with them a whole set
of political religious and cultural
values and it's not
not merely that these things don't
assimilate into british culture
so the example they don't want to
assimilate
and why should they oh again
this may surprise me in the audience i'm
not pro
assimilation and i'll invite you to just
think this through if i decide to retire
in thailand
not impossible i already speak the thai
language well enough with a heavy lotion
accent
really i speak lotion but i can i can
make it sound like tai
um if i decide to retire to thailand
am i going to try to assimilate into
thai culture
if i have a child and i raise my child
in thailand am i going to give my child
an education
that revolves around ancient athens
and ancient rome and our tradition of
philosophy
and democracy you know centuries and
centuries accumulated wisdom and
heritage that comes out of what i think
of as my
background right am i going to teach
them
that history that politics or
am i actually going to try to imitate
what thai parents would do
and give my child an education that
centers around the history of
theravada buddhism of how thai culture
was in part
you know generated from ancient indian
influences
in part from ancient tibeto burmese and
southeast asian influences am i going to
give my child
actually a world view in terms of
politics philosophy
history religion that is really
authentically
thai what what am i going to do what am
i going to do if i immigrate to china
what am i going to do even if i
immigrate to jamaica
am i going to make an effort to speak
with a jamaican accent
if i move to jamaica permanently
would you you in the audience okay for
any of these
so have some compassion
that pakistani families who move to
england it doesn't matter what the
example is it really doesn't
or you know a malaysian family that
moves to toronto
whatever the permeation or permutation
or combination would be
that the the the huge numbers of chinese
immigrants we have
right now coming from china to live in
vancouver huge numbers of chinese
immigrants living in
the greater los angeles area california
they
don't want to assimilate
and why should they why would they if
your positions were reversed
you probably would not want to
assimilate
either all right we shouldn't expect
that from them
and when you look at the rewards the
costs and the benefits of assimilating
you're actually asking people to make
tremendous sacrifices to get very very
little
uh in return and
i i won't digress i want to rest further
on that but you know
having sympathy for all sides
if 20 of the population of myanmar
now flees from myanmar to thailand
even if they do that because they're
deeply committed
to democracy right that doesn't mean
they're deeply committed
to learning another language as their
first language doesn't mean they want to
raise their children
speaking another language as their first
language doesn't mean they don't have
burmese nationalism
right they don't have a commitment to
the culture the language the heritage
you know oh they're like hey they came
to thailand because they want democracy
they want freedom of speech
they may also want the mangoes and the
coconuts and holidays at the beach or
the other things that come with it
right they don't want to assimilate
right and why should they and why would
they
why would you expect them to subordinate
themselves to
a culturally and politically tie
schedule of values as opposed to
bringing
their own values with them and then
perpetuating those in their own lives in
their own families
and down through successive generations
now my own perspective
is fundamentally very
pro-cosmopolitanism right
what i despise is the accumulation
of bad ideas written into laws
that were created as short-term
solutions to short-term problems
without anyone really thinking through
the implications
right now at the end of world war ii
in general world leaders were deeply
shocked
and saddened to see the reality of what
the holocaust
had been and i asked you again to
sympathize
these were men and women in power that
time almost entirely
men let's face it um and
even though on paper they might have had
some awareness
of the brutality of the nazi regime when
the war ended
they saw film clips of it they saw
photographs of it
some of them went there in person to
actually see
death camps concentration camps and so
on and they heard back
verbally from soldiers who had actually
liberated these places
the full gravity and horror of what had
happened
in the nazi holocaust became clear to
everyone involved
right and this inspired the writing
of what are ultimately completely
irrational but well-intentioned
laws read the text of the united nations
conventions on
on refugees and then just scale it up
and then just think how does this apply
to the entire population of venezuela
right now
how does this apply to the entire
population of myanmar it is very obvious
that these laws were written
in a short term exasperated way that's
this exasperated word
overwhelmed with emotion and feeling all
of this could have been avoided
all of these millions of lives could
have been saved if only
we had accepted jewish refugees instead
of refusing them
obviously there was a terrible sense of
guilt and there's a sense of guilt that
in many ways of course overrides
common sense right
what if the other countries of europe
had accepted everyone who disagreed with
and opposed
the nazi regime would that have stopped
the nazi regime or would that have made
it stronger
right now if you subtract from myanmar
to 20 of people who really want
democracy
who really want positive political
change is that going to make the
military
the military dictatorship in myanmar
stronger or weaker how about the ethnic
minorities
within myanmar some of whom are afraid
of genocide some of whom have had more
or less genocidal struggles
with the burmese majority if you
subtract them
if you say okay we'll just we'll just
remove this whole ethnic group so they
can live safely in some other country
instead of staying in their country
and fighting for racial equality more
multicultural harmonious democratic
study
is that going to make that regime
stronger or weaker
okay if the other powers in europe
had accepted all these people as
refugees
right they could have accepted not just
the jews
not just the gypsies they could have
basically accepted the whole left of
center
40 percent of the population i don't
know what percentage it would be
let's let's stick with same let's say 20
let's say there were just 20
of germans who were really willing to
stand up
and fight and die to end
adolf hitler's regime what you want them
to do
is stand up and fight and win
you don't want them to subscribe to
this mass immigration mass refugee
culture of rewarding cowardice what you
don't want them to do
is to give up and run away
i think that the most successful
political ideology
of my lifetime was neoconservatism
which is about 90 the same thing as
neoliberalism
we could tease out some small
differences right
neoconservatism and neoliberalism they
are very nearly
two heads of the same beast it was a
tremendously
successful political ideology
but its success was finite
and now it's over in american culture
every movie that comes up is either
a blockbuster or a flop
nobody talks about a movie being a
success
but finite all right movie you can make
80 million dollars at the box office
and it's a flop people people were
expecting it to make 200 million dollars
80 million dollars wow that was a flop
that movie was a total failure right
this is part of american culture
everything is thought of as either a
huge success
or a failure right and we seem to have
difficulty thinking through things like
you know what this was a success but the
success could only go
so far and then it ran out of gas it ran
out of steam however i want to put it
then it was over all right
neoconservatism and neoliberalism
completely embraced this idea
of mass immigration they really are what
created the consensus that lasted for
decades
across the left and the right that we
would all have a better society
if we embrace this model of mass
immigration and the exceptions
very few you know japan is one of the
few
you know democracies that completely
rejected the mass
immigration model of economic and social
progress okay now what did it promise
mass immigration did promise a more
cosmopolitan society
that we wouldn't be such rednecks living
in isolation that we would have chinese
restaurants and indian restaurants
in every city and in every small town we
would have in this surface level
a more multicultural society that when
you go to the bank machine
it asks you do you want to withdraw
money in six different languages
wow cosmopolitan huh it also promised us
lower wages right this is the dark side
of neoliberalism okay it promised us
a society where new immigrants and
refugees
would not come to rule over us as our
masters
no it was very much an explicit overt
part
of the neoliberal plan that they would
come into our society and they would
take up
the lowest paid jobs that allegedly
right white people in the united states
of america didn't want to do
white people in england didn't want to
do right so it was
unequal in a hierarchical and frankly
oppressive
way now there are some exceptions to
this
there were people who came from india
and became surgeons at hospitals there
are people who came from all of the
women did take up
elite positions in the economy right
when i lived in thailand all of the
dirtiest
and most dangerous jobs were done by
burmese people
and this was an accepted fact society
seen
universally right you had a racially
stratified society and there were some
strata in the middle
too in bangkok i already mentioned this
i spoke lotion
you know who else spoke lotion all the
taxi drivers
i was obviously not 100 but there was
this weird pattern
where like oh in this province of
thailand all the construction workers
are burmese all the taxi drivers are the
ocean like
sector by sector there are these strange
quiet humble people who got there very
often as refugees
sometimes as economic migrants
resembling refugees very often
as illegal immigrants or people who just
never had any paperwork in their life
they may have never they've never had a
passport i remember going into a bicycle
shop to get repairs done to my bike
it was quite an expensive bicycle shop
in bangkok thailand
and all of the low humble workers
who were doing the heavy lifting they
all spoke lahotian
and it was the strange things i walked
in i was speaking loud and they were so
delighted to hear their own language
instead of speaking thai or instead of
speaking english you know
they responded to me so warmly but i
could see that they were
really afraid to speak lotion back to me
that they were under some orders from
their boss no no when there were
customers in the store
don't speak that foreign language like
either pretend you speak thai or don't
speak anything it's this really strange
situation
and the owner of the of the store as i
recall i think was actually ethnically
chinese
a sino-thai person it was you know
wearing a
sharp business suit in contrast to these
people and
and it was just strange i was talking to
them and no my ability in lotion was
limited
but i knew everything to say about
repairing a bicycle
some of the first vocabulary i memorized
how to fix the gears and fix the tire
and this kind of stuff
um air pressure i mean it's weird
vocabulary was some of my best
so my best vocabulary the language was
talking to these guys
about the repair and you know they they
gave me a
discount the workers because they they
were just
so delighted to have a white man who
spoke spoke their language
but i remember just the really strange
saddening
feudal sense of oppression between
social classes and how they related to
their boss how they looked at her and
looked at me and were
were afraid to speak their own language
in the workplace and obviously
you know i don't know occam's razor
maybe that they were there either as
illegal immigrants or
refugees and some in some uncertain
pattern all right you know i think
the saddest and sickest part of
the old neoconservative neoliberal model
of globalization of all is just that it
had no
point it had no goal
it had no future
it had no model of what the future
society was supposed to be
right do you want to live
in a province like ontario where white
people
own the farms and don't work on the
farms
i just saw footage from michigan
the farms are owned by white people and
mysteriously
all the workers are either mexican
nicaraguan or otherwise from further
south of the border and don't speak
english
in that case they were saying they came
on these special work visas they weren't
illegal immigrants so you have a society
where white people are the owning and
exploiting class
they're the ones making money out of the
cherries
being harvested or the broccoli or
whatever it might be
right but it's not that the white people
who go to university
are working on the farm during their
summer holiday as a part-time job
it's not that you have citizens who have
all the rights to
complain to government and unionize and
vote and everything else
coming to work on your farm no you have
this separate
stigmatized frankly oppressed social
class
doing the low-wage labor within your
society all right
now whether or not this was
envisaged by the neoliberal and
neoconservative
generation right that is
that is the model of a society that
we're living in right now um
and it was set up in an asymmetrical way
where we never expected other countries
to do for us in return
what we were doing for them right canada
wants to attract chinese university
students
we don't ask whether or not canadians
can go to university
in china canada wants to attract
laborers from mexico
we don't ask about the rights of
canadians to go and get a job
in mexico in return on and on and on
right
and above all else none of the western
first world countries are asking the
question of
whether or not 10 of their own
population could run away and find
refuge and start a new life
in some other country if and when the
time came or if for some of us
as dissidents who are disaffected or
feel oppressed in our own countries
if we feel that that time is right now
um so the concept of mass immigration
which is now ineluctably tainted with
its association with right-wing and
racist groups
it's going to inevitably have to be
defined
and deployed again because we have to
create a middle ground
we have to create a way forward for
politics
that is neither based on a stereotyped
notion
of a globalized cosmopolitan society
a borderless world where there's
unlimited immigration in all directions
at all times
nor based on the stereotype of rednecks
who want to live in a mono culture where
everyone speaks the same language
where nobody sees a foreign face or eats
at a foreign restaurant
at all